>> Kent C. Dodds: For
each one of these tests they each need
to have some things set up on
the request and the response.
For our first one the request
could just be an empty object and
that was totally fine.
For these other ones we need
to get like a specific user or
we need to Update a specific user.
So we need to set up the user
property on the request.
And there are various things.
And then once we start getting
into setting the status to 404 and
testing those.
Then the response is gonna need to have
the status and the send methods on it.
And what happens is in a bigger
application as this grows
the request to set up for
this request object.
You'll have the users locale and
you'll have other
pertinant user information.
So these request and response object,
these fake versions of those
start to get pretty sizeable.
And what is mostly concerning for
me is when they're almost the same
in pretty much every way except to some
very important and subtle unique ways.
There's something unique
about this particular request
object that makes this
function behave differently.
And I can't tell that when most of
the request object looks exactly the same
as the other test so this is where
you come into test object factory.
This pattern is also
called an object mother,
which I think is the weirdest term for
this.
So, that's why I call it
test object factory, but
the idea is that you take the common
stuff, and you put it in a function, and
you get back what you're looking for that
actually sounds like programming to me.
So it's a pretty normal thing to do.
So in our finished version,
we have this setup function.
I'll just stick right here and
the set up function is responsible for
any set up that's common to all of our
test it doesn't have to be all of them
you can have a set up like case one and
set up case two whatever is relevant for
your test but the general idea is,
if there are objects that you need,
if there's some state that you need
to initialize or something like that?
Then you could use this
setup function to do that.
You can also do stuff like this using
before each, and let rec equal, or
yeah, let rec, and then in the before
each, rec equals, and stuff.
I really actually don't like using
those kinds of utilities cuz
I think it kind of obscures
what's going on in my tests.
I want to look at my tests and
see where these variables are coming from.
And so we have this set-up that
will initialize a request,
that handles all the necessary cases for
our That are common to all of our tests.
We also have this res object that's
doing some fancy things with binds and
stuff, cuz they express as funny.
And then it just returns those for us.
And so anywhere that we need our request
and response, we can use those instead.
Here, let me format all that stuff.
So get our rec and our res and we don't
need to do anything else for this one.
And for this one there's
some extra on the request.
So what we're gonna do is say {rec,
res} = setup () and
then on the request for any extra stuff
will Just put it explicitly on there.
And then the response
doesn't need anything extra.
There's nothing fancy about the response.
So it shouldn't appear in my test
if there's nothing unique to
this test about that.
And the same thing can be said here.
We say rec and res equals set up.
And then for each one of these,
I´ll do =, get rid of those things.
And then the rest doesn´t
have anything special.
And so now when I look at my test I say,
yes this is a normal request object But
it has these additional special things
to handle the update user case.
So an update user needs to have a user.
It needs to have params and
it needs to have a body.
Whereas if you look at the other, well
what often happens as the test phase kind
of goes over Iterations is somebody will
come in here and they'll copy this and
they'll just paste it.
They'll make any of
the modifications they need.
Let's say that we're
trying to write this test.
Maybe this one didn't exist before.
So we copy this and we paste it and
then we make any alterations that we need.
Okay well I guess for this we just, yeah,
we need params, yeah, so
we've got that already.
So then we just keep on going
without realizing that this endpoint
doesn't actually need a user.
It doesn't need a body.
And now we have some extra stuff, extra
craft in our test that isn't actually
relevant to the test, but
people who come later think that it is.
And so the whole process of
testing is trying to communicate
to people who are going to be maintaining
these tests what actually is relevant.
So that when they start making
changes they don't think,
well if I'm going to
change the update user or
the get user then I better not make
any changes to rec user because
apparently there's
something important there.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Okay, so actually, there
is a great question here from you, Bear.
How much should we care if units
can be tested in isolation?
I care nothing about your units being
tested in isolation I care about
my application being me being confident
in shipping my application and
so if that means that I need to slice
off all the dependencies of a units so
I can test it as a pure unit test and
that makes me more confident
than that's what I'm going to do but
that's like pretty rarely the case.
In some sense, if I have a unit
that is sufficiently complex and
maybe initializing the database
before every test just to test
all the complexities of this unit,
if initializing the database
like takes too much time Maybe I'll
take the complexities in that,
I'll rip it out and
put it into a pure function, and
then I could test that all day long and
make that be an isolation.
That's a great way to get
the best of both worlds.
I can get the speed of
pure actual unit tests
without sacrificing a lot on confidence.
So I'd have maybe one test that ensures
that this extracted, complex piece is
being called properly, and then a whole
bunch of unit tests around that complex
piece that's a pure function now,
makes it a lot easier to test.
So there are definitely things and
situations where dropping down to
a lower level of testing is optimal,
and that would be a good situation.
You have something that right now you can
only test as kind of an integration test.
You pull out the piece that really has
a lot of edge cases it's handling,
you put that into its own little module
and then you can test that all out.
So I wonder if instead of making mock
database columns we can check with data
the function was called with.
Yeah, actually this is a good question
perhaps with a schema assertion.
So yeah, I was gonna show this,
decided not to, but I guess I will.
I won't demo it.
So what the suggestion is,
is rather than pulling all the users from
the database and comparing the users
from the database with the test user,
you can actually just assert that
what you get back looks like a user.
So you could create a schema here that
is like id: expect.any(String) and
so on and so forth and
that would be okay with me.
I'd be fine with it.
Especially since this is
generated data anyway.
You do back up a little bit on
your confidence in doing that
because what if somebody
has it off by one error.
Now it's grabbing a different
user from the database.
Well it passes the schema, but
it's not doing what you want.
So just make sure that you're
considering those circumstances as well,
but in the case of the getUsers, it's
just gonna get a whole bunch of users,
like all the users from the database.
You can just check all of those
match the user schema and
probably be okay, but if it's reasonable,
doing something that has more
confidence is probably better.
I think that was it for
test object factories.
I should say one thing About
this before each thing.
And test to clean up.
So your test, each test should be
able to be run in total isolation,
or with any number of other tests
that are happening around it,
even in parallel,
because that's what [INAUDIBLE] is doing.
And so When you're talking
about databases and stuff,
that can start to get
a little bit complicated.
So in some situations,
you either change your tests so
that it's cool with anything else writing
to the database at the same time.
In other, and
that applies to client side tests as well.
If you're doing end to end tests And
wanting to run those in parallel or
something.
You want your test to be able to
operate in parralel with others.
If you can't get your database to or
your software to
work in that way then
running them serialy is okay.
It's just gonna take a fair amount longer.
So just be aware of that trade-off.
But whatever the case may be,
doing your cleanup ahead of your tests,
rather than when your tests are over,
can often be really helpful,
especially when it's
interacting with a database.
Because when if you do all of your like
lets say you are creating a bunch of user
and then you're verifying that those
users were created or something.
When you are all done you're
going to delete all those user.
So that now that test can setup and
cleanup by itself.
So, the, that's a great thing to do but
if you do have a test failure,
one of the things that's really
nice to be able to do is to
inspect the state of the world
at the time your test failed.
So, if you use an after each
to re-initialize the database
every time your test runs or
clean up the database.
What's going to happen is
your test will fail, and
then your after each will run
it will clean up the database.
And so now you can't inspect the database
to see what was wrong with the database.
And so if instead you do all
the cleanup ahead of time,
then your tests can still run
in isolation from each other.
They just clean things up before each run,
but if something breaks then you
can check out with the status of
the databases at the time it broke.
That pretty much applies only when
you are learning text serially
because things are always
knocking around and stuff, but
especially when you're taking your
end to end task making sure that
your cleaning things up before hand
rather than after can help your
application be in a debunkable
state at the time it breaks.